all right I'm back had a call and now
we're back onto
this all right
so the other thing that we need to do
with this sketch first
off we need to find this length we to
make it
30 if we go to the out of the
starts product overview
build if we go to the
build and then we want to see the part
where he installs the augur because in
there let's mute this
he lets a ball go through and we just
want to see how tight that
looks
okay all right so he keeps it pretty
tight actually which is probably
good
so we're going to do the same let's make
it
25 and then what is
still what is
left
okay so what we actually
want
is we want to
sort of delete this line right because
we
want is there a line there yeah let's
just delete
that so we're going to make this go
down and then this is
V this is going to
be yeah let's say let's say eight eight
sounds good and then
this is
9.9 okay now what else do we have here
that's
oh wait is this
V so this let's get let's get
normal this and this point need to be
coincident okay now what else do we have
here that's
uh so we need this to be H okay now
we're good let's hope the sweep still
works why though oh it's a missing face
that's
okay please work all right we have done
it maybe that taper is a little bit too
aggressive So the plan is
now can we use
this wait ra a radius it's giving me a
radius get Dimension this to be
three we're going to
extrude can we get that
profile why can't we get that
profile there we go so we're going to
make this like 50
right and then
here we're just going to do like
a let's see how much distance do we have
have here between this and
this what okay if I just select
them Center distance but we want Min
distance is
wait
what in X it's nine
and then here's where the cutout happens
I feel
like I feel like you want to make the
cut out here but then there'll be a
bunch of them stuck here
I just feel like this taper is not cuz
see how flat it
is maybe we can make it more subtle so
anyways let's just do this for right now
so the DeMent this to here this is going
to
be I don't know what is the distance
between here and
here the dimension cannot be created
between these two
items don't understand that at all
yeah it doesn't it doesn't
work for some reason you
can't wait do I have to use
this there we
go okay so let's say it's just let's
just say nine
what keeps doing
this wait if I click on this there we go
oh yeah and
then wait but before we do that I think
we want to roll this back we're going to
take this we is that the whole
thing yeah you can't hide sweeps it's
kind of funny
oh wait we need to roll it
back before this too so we want to make
a sketch on
here and we want to select this and this
but not that
okay
nice now we
can roll these
forward
nice so let's look at the the full
assembly hop
ass okay so we're first off we're using
the wrong part or no it's just for some
reason it feels like sometimes it
updates and sometimes it doesn't we also
have forgotten to add a pillar here
oh wait never
mind now this is good this is
good so we just need to add an opening
here why don't we have
it we could have the hole like in there
like could we not
how are we going to get this
face we need to remove symmetrically
through all
how's that that seems like a good
plan and then the tube just drops
straight down we need a the problem with
this though is we
need a
way to hold the tube in there
we need a way to hold the tube in
which I mean glue is the obvious choice
but glue kind of sucks first off we also
need to make
this well hold on
we don't really have any room for it for
something to to fall into it plus it
makes a lip you can't have it make a
lip
um so this maybe isn't the best
idea how do we want the balls to fall in
cuz I was originally think I mean what
we had originally was you take a plane
oops you make it tangent and you click
on here and you flip not flip normal you
flip alignment
here then you wait where did my plane go
here we go you sketch on here then you
draw like a rectangle
and you do
this and instead of can I it's weird
that some features you can turn off and
some you can't actually most you
can't I guess that makes sense
the issue is if it's going horizontal
for a little bit then it's not going
to I like the falling in the falling
idea I
just we need we need to some way to
attach the
tube I'm
wondering what is driving the thickness
of this cuz we could just make that a
whole bunch
thicker and if we make it
thicker then we could have an inset an
inset screw we could sketch that
out for
a e
I
for for
okay so I was thinking about it and
the problem is if you want to sit
something in
there it's possible what is the height
of this it's five right it's
four
uh we'd want it to be flush and it would
go from under but it would
be an ID of 25 and actually don't we
want to make this one in
actually we should should probably make
this specifically 1 in which is
25.4
so I believe if we look at this sketch
does this no not that sketch but this
sketch I believe that no
so if we delete
this we can make this
big but what we want to do is we want to
say this and this are also tangent
oh why can't you do
that I sort of get it but also
no um but we need to go back to the
walls right is that
this that's probably the underside or is
that if I select this oh that's this
okay so wait we made this
25 so it's this okay so it's this sketch
that governs it and we're going to just
change this to be one
inch what
okay now we have a little bit more room
here if we look at
first off can we just delete these two
things this is totally annoying
so so the idea is whatever this is
mounted on this is hanging off the edge
or has a hole in it
we're actually so close to printing I
don't know why I'm being so hesitant
so basically the question is how do we
connected this
yeah so what I was thinking
is I mean you really only need one you
probably want
two you do you could go here and here
you could actually go into the thick
part you could go there and there
you would want an index so you would
draw a couple of lines like which sketch
was
it skip from sketch 10 okay so you would
also want to
have like some notch so that you get it
right because okay wait let's just so
let's just say that we're going to get
oh I should have just bought that pipe
let me go on Home Depot really quick see
if I can get it
today just one in uh my phone's off okay
so let's think about
this and let's look at
top and
tilt no oh no not
tilt so this is the part that we want to
look at
that should be fine so wait can we
um I think I just called it like
solenoid holder or
something
okay so right now there's only one part
but what we want to do is we want to
make a sketch on
here and we're just going to
make see
ER
H that's kind of tight that actually is
probably
tangent that's tangent but it's
not I don't know where that concentric
is coming from so this is perpendicular
I mean back here it's fine so we just
want to avoid this
part so let's uh delete
this and we should be able to okay so
we're going to go like
this for
there we
go I don't see anything wrong with
that except what's free
oh
this just make it
15 okay then what's wrong with
this
what first off that doesn't even
look I don't get that at all is that cuz
this isn't
what so confused right now
bro oh wait is this need to be
H oh it's yeah I got I just got my aess
wrong it's kind of I mean I I mean in
some sense I like that you have to be
explicit about V versus H but like also
come on all right so let's just go we're
going to draw we have do we have the
construction line or
no I guess
not just make That
explicit then we have a line normal line
go here normal line go here and then we
just want to
mirror the all of
this
okay now we want to take this going to
extrude it by three and it's a new
part and then we want to sketch on here
I'm going to use this hello use this
hello why can't I get my cont
concentricity wait what if I just put
this
here I say
this cannot Dimension at this curve
that's because of the concentricity so
wait can we say
concentric concentric and you just
select
this wait this and this there we go now
I can Dimension because it's wait
what that doesn't make any sense I feel
like I must have
is this not a circle for okay for some
reason that's not a circle but that
doesn't make any
sense let's roll back before
the
extrude oh wait we have
to go back before this
okay so when
we okay why don't we just use that one
let's just roll
forward we're going to use the
circle so this is wait that's not the
circle okay so that's a circle
we want to oh wait are we in the sketch
we're not in a
sketch right we want
to shift
s okay then we want to select this use
it now we have the
point do this and now we want to
Dimension to this we'll make it
three and
then I feel like it could just press fit
in so wait but we need to
actually this is wrong right because we
need to
make so let's undo this oh restore the
sketch but edit it and we need to
delete this but what we want is oh wait
why have why why did that delete the use
we still want the use we want to do this
we want to make this
one
inch just slightly
more just by by a hair wait actually
it's less this is 26 we actually gave it
a little bit
more so that's actually perfect cuz then
it's cleared then it has a little bit of
clearance to uh let something
through
wait the tubing is going to have an OD
of one and
A4 let's see what that looks like cuz
that could be that could be spooky so
instead of this we need to be you need
to say
54s uh
okay so that's no good because now we
need to do
this and make this
three we have the we actually have the
room
here okay so we could do this if we have
the willpower so we're going to do do
that we're going to go back to this and
we're just going to make this maybe
like so wait so the inner
of that is an uncleared 5/4 of an inch
so we actually need to make it one more
so when we look at this sketch this
needs to be 54 of an inch plus 1
mm okay now we're going to extrude this
out sure 25 sounds
good
um we actually kind of don't want this
Interior
right okay because of the width of the
tube this shouldn't have any clogging
issues but so then it's just going to so
that's the whole part pretty much
we'll call this tube
adapter now the one thing that's going
to be interesting is how do we how do we
keep
it
attached I mean know oh
[Laughter]
no for
no I feel like I feel like this is fine
we're just going to glue
it we're just going to glue
it the problem is you got to be really
careful you got to do it away from yeah
when it's detached all right so I'm down
with this so the only other part that we
need is
did we ever fix that I
forget we delete
this so wait but don't we want to make
this okay so what we're saying is that
from
like it's from
like
here to
here is this tangent okay
this thing is sitting over the edge of
whatever it's
on
so let me go look at my threaded inserts
we're just going to
make a hole here we're going to use this
to say that these are vertical we're
going
to oh this is not on this
axis I kind of thought it
was right it's like 25 above
um should be
okay so yeah so we're just going to
design another adapter and then we're
going to get this all
printed and we're going to go by the
tube okay so this is going to
be and it's going to be installed from
the the bottom which is not
ideal but it ALS but it's fine so this
is going to be threaded
insert let me go look at what I
have
for
e
for for
okay so we're going to put a threaded
insert on from the
bottom
with none of them are by four we have
three fives though two three fivs are
probably good
so I made it0 2 smaller
oh m3x 4X five okay
m345 so we're going to make a
variable where's their varable Studio
it's
uh so it's going to be
m34
five
right
uh thread
insert hole
so it's it's just going to
be
4.8 was this where I was doing that
oh okay so this is going to be
oh so we can delete
this actually we should delete this so
we need to go back to
here
nice
yep and then we just wanted
are they
vertical we want to mirror
it or we could just do circular we'll
just do a circular so then all we need
to do is take that extrude this remove
and then we want it to
be right we don't want it to go all the
way through we we need it to
go just uh just four
right let's do
4.2 just in
case and then we want to do a circular
pattern of a feature around the
Extrusion and the axis is this and then
we just want two of
them and then what's wrong reapply
features
there we
go okay now we just need to design an
adapter that's going to fit onto this
thing and then we're ready to go get
some tubing and try to assem print and
assemble
this we do need to fix one more thing
and then okay so let's just design on
here this is the easiest way to do it so
I
want so I want
so we're going to do this this three
then what we want is like a line
here um we're going to mirror this
sketch part I guess so we're going to
do
this it's like that but then it
intersects this okay and this is
actually a Q and that's a mirror line
and then what what we want here is we
want a nice little tangent Arc
between this and this and then we're
going to delete this line cuz we don't
need it this is a okay wait we want
to does is that not going to
work there we
go
okay we need to make
the what does it do if
you Dimension to here it Dimensions from
the oh from the outside okay so let's
just make it
10 oh wait no why 10 10 is so
five there we go wait five let's make it
cuz what's the radius of this this is
2.5 so then there's only 2.5 let's make
it
7.5 okay and then these are these
parallel oh wait they are vertical okay
they just need to be they're probably
parallel too they just need a distance
on them
then and it doesn't need to be 11 it can
probably be let's see if it's 5
2.5
oh and what is still unconstrained
oh
wait there we go
okay so we need to just take
this and
mirror s oh yeah you have to select the
mirror line first then all of these
great and now we just need to take this
extrude this by three and it's a new
part and then we want to sketch on here
we want to use it we want to sketch to
I'm going to
use these I'm going to sketch to H it's
so
annoying we just want to take this and
maybe go down
I don't know how much do he really need
10 do we want to like put a small hole
just in case we need to self-tap
it and then actually did we do this
right we did not do this right
because we didn't do this right at all
but this is
a the right idea we just need to go back
and edit some sketches it's probably
this sketch
no so first we need to start
here and we need to make
this 54s
in
uh plus + 1
mm so that's the
wait okay so now we need another one
that's like this it's
three so then this needs to be
like 25 that seems good is that a little
close
maybe 30 30 seems
far split the difference 27 and a
half that seems
good but wait we need to fix
is it
this or is it
this no not
that where did I just draw that sketch
with the 5
a is it this
yeah so let's we need to delete this
need to make
this or wait can we just change
that
so what we're going to
do just make this like
10 it's way bigger okay now we want to
make this and this is going to be 54s in
oh it's so annoying okay I mean that
that is the most common but it's like
when it does the wrong thing so we want
to delete this and we want to make this
three then okay there we
go what was the extreme oh
no so yeah we're good we just need to um
oh wait this is
true we just need to let's just delete
this
sketch okay so we're going to sketch on
here I guess we're going to use
this and we're just going to extrude
this this by 20
okay uh so yeah so let's just
do let's just do this I mean just in
case I'm going to use just a couple of
self-tapping
screws
uh I mean why not dude holes holes are
good holes are good you never really
know
what's going to
happen this is going to be cool all
right
so okay so we're we okay stop [__]
around [__] stop [__] around
select an additional point to
orient uh I'm
good wait it did that that went
to did that go why does it look like it
it's not right
wait are there two which one is that
one wa well we want this
one okay we're going to sketch normal oh
I hate that so much okay now we're going
to
use we just need to do
like halfway so what did we do we did
20 so this going to be 10 this is going
to be like
two two isn't it one and a
half then we're going to take this we're
going to extrude
remove to next oh yeah it doesn't work
so we got to do a blind we get five
then we want to do a circular pattern
honestly we got to get so much better at
this bro
honestly conversational CAD would be so
nice dude it's going to happen I just
really want it to happen sooner rather
than
later
nice just in
case all right sick so this is going to
be the
uh Hopper
tube
adapter or holder I don't know what you
call
things all right next is we just need to
add to
this a little dck named
Bob let's get normal let's get normal up
in here let's get normal up in here
is there a way for me
to we'll draw a construction
line that's tangent oh wait what just
happened wait what just happened
what do we think of that
they all have the rounded niceness but I
don't know how much that
matters let just take this profile and
extrude
it it's going to be an ad it's going to
be the other way
wait merge
scope
auger dude merge scope
bro so I just make it
five
really our definitely doesn't
go as
high but I think that this will be fine
we're just going to what's up with this
sketch I don't think I'm doing anything
with that
sketch let's just make this Dimension
like
35 is it going to stall though I'm kind
of worried of it cuz the amount of cuz
yeah so wait so let's change oops let's
change this to be
30 I feel like that's a good middle
ground all right we're going to print
this stuff bro why am I always so
nervous about printing these dumbass
Parts okay so let me just write down
what I have to
print there's the
base there's the motor
holder the
augur
the
solenoid
holder tube ad
adapter and the Hop tube
[Music]
adapter and then what we need to check
is that
the let's
see
um oh wait
that that this Edge to
here wait that's
14 yeah that's supposed to be 25
honestly dude let's send
it I want to go buy some
pipe and I guess you know what we should
do after we should also
um we should also
um try to figure out why one of the
motors stall
all okay all right so let's just export
these parts
then wait I I I want to do it from the
actual
thing okay I'm going to make a folder
for this
no we don't need to do that is it in the
right place
okay yes no one else bothered by how
slow it is to like actually you have to
just
like oh yeah did we you want to redesign
this oh wait okay wait how did we want
to do
this what was our
old
assembly
right wait where did it
go what the heck oh there we
go so we're going to do threaded inserts
or something or how oh we just going to
use nuts nuts are gonna be a pain I
would rather use threaded
inserts but I do like this
design
so how tall did we make this which part
was
that is that Hopper two that's hopper
one so if we select
this this
Extrusion
75 that's pretty tall
so let's go to
Hopper base and we're going to take this
feature and we're going to make it
75 why why though why can't it sit lower
on
it but we wanted it to be high because
then
yeah I think that this is fine this will
just hold a few more we do want oh but
we all right I don't want to export and
print this
without without getting that working
because it would just be kind of dumb to
have to print it
again okay so
in this assembly it goes on the
inside we could just as easily make it
go on the outside but
um okay that's 62 I'm actually curious
what ours our new one
is it
should oh yo see that's brutal oh wait
if we select if we select
this nice so we're three
bigger okay that actually kind of checks
out
huh
um okay so we just need to make a
tangent plane so we're going to go to
Hopper
base and we're going to make a oh we
have a tangent plane it's
this is it I can't tell it's so hard to
tell if we just do
this okay
yeah so it's sketch on here we just need
to what is
that honestly we could just copy it all
right okay so we just want to do so wait
uh this is going on the
outside so it can just be M4 whole
2 but
the oh
wait
um this we we can make
uh sure
7.5 well actually how tall do we want to
make that thing oh wait this is no see
it's so easy to do this I mean honestly
though that is like kind of how I like
to do
it it just cuz it it gets closer to like
what you actually care about in the
dimension um this Hopper container
probably just needs a couple of
modifications
right so this was a this was a
okay yeah so we we did we went the other
way so but this outer Dimension is going
to be
this 128
minus so let's just make it
127 and now it should just fit in there
and then what what's the size of these
things why are they
lengths that's the that's the annoying
thing about cutting oh you know what if
we do the one that was on the sketch
plane does it give us a circle probably
not yeah see it doesn't have any so you
have to go into the sketch all right so
this is perfect so it was 7.5 from the
center because we made this a
so
15 I'm down with that so we can just
change that back and then this is 4.4
but how we made this wall three
can we make this wall four and then use
an M3
actually kind of happy with that thing
is it it makes more values but it's like
it's Al also just convenient so
tradeoff uh I'm down to keep this
spacing this is going to be the M3
threaded hole insert
diet and then it's going to
go through but what we need to do here
wait does that accept it that might not
have accepted it we need to make this
four and so the worry about making this
so thick is that it well one it's going
to be oh yeah and we actually have to
change the geometry of this to like make
sense cuz I'm pretty sure that this that
sketch is bunk it's just like really
goofy and not really thought out it's
just sort of a drawing uh so we want to
take this and see if that it it did it
so that is a going to be a threaded hole
and it's going to go through so we're
good on that feature we just need a
before I forget check and change this
this is going to be an M3
hole and then we we want to do the oh
wait and we also have to is that this so
we need to change this and we want to
delete this and it's PR probably it's
not even that close so this needs to be
7.5 yeah we were off by like almost a
mil so there we go oops we going to take
this face extrude it remove through uh
up to next no it doesn't work work blind
I don't really get that dude there must
be an explanation for that you just make
this
five and then we want to circular
pattern
it okay and now we want to actually go
to our assembly
file uh what
happened not this assembly this assembly
and we want insert a
component so it doesn't have any of the
adapters
[Applause]
which I think the answer is you just I
mean there's the answer is definitely
not start the assembly over but that's
just how it feels but in any case this
is going to be
container and we we just want to join
the outside of that Circle which we can
do I remember actually doing this now
okay so we want to mate that
guy
to that
cool um
yeah see how see how constricted this is
this to here is probably less than
25 Min distance
18 yeah see that's no good man we can't
we can't have that so we need to we need
to
make
um what if we do what if we just
so okay so the idea here is now we're
going to go from the outside so we're
going to have a little lip that sits on
top of the wall of
the so this is going to be the
base and this is going to be
the and it's just going to go down a
little bit and then now this one's going
to have the threaded
insert and then this is just going to
going be a bolt but
then I mean honestly do you only
save also this makes it annoying because
now we have to edit the
base actually is that hard I feel like
that's easy it does change a good amount
of stuff that's why this is doing this
so UNP parametrically was kind of a
problem we can um but like wait why why
do I keep having this idea that going
from the outside even makes
sense uh can we look at a cross section
maybe section view let's see if we can
get on wait we have to do p what we
can't get our planes oh I wish I could
get my geom my construction
planes okay
yes do we get the little pull
thing where is
it edit section view okay here we
go
so basically the distance
between between this and
this is 18
but what is the distance
between uh this circle and this
face this is 24 so this alone is already
so yeah so the difference is we just
need that
four we need need that
for but honestly wait how is
it how is it
18 if the Min distance from here to this
wall is 24 and then this is
four I don't really see how why it's not
just I
mean you would think it'd be more
in any case
uh for
something like
that oh interesting I didn't think about
this but that's
okay um but if we were to do
that then we save some of that
distance okay um
I
mean the alternative
is oh my gosh bro there has to be a way
to rotate the camera 90
[Music]
or
that either
way okay if we Dimension this right
could
we okay so let's just quickly do
the
plane tangent I don't know why it keeps
not
defaulting so I think it's
this uh so this is going to be
[Music]
um so wait this is going to be the
outside one so this is just an
M3 okay then this distance is wait is it
going to be that distance
1.5 then we want to make this
hm we only need one so let's
um just delete
this and insert container too oh wait we
need to Dimension the inside of that
thing so the
uh oh
wait this is the good one we need this
one so in this SK
we need the dimension to
be something and that something
is so this is going on the outside so we
need that first thing to
be
134 plus like one
oh I was worried about that so wait can
we okay
so um yeah see CU what it did so wait
let's
um so that is right
actually we want this to be like three
oh wait why is this so far
in this needs to be like what are we
making it we're making it four I'm going
to keep it
three wait what the hell was this shape
I'm just going to delete this we just
have to reselect everything
I actually preferred this
design
what what just
happened oh
wa oh there we go
degrees oh
adding hell Dimensions is so
cringe okay what's left
is this vertical yeah it
is okay cool now we have just this angle
put the
angle here
what was wrong with this
sketch
what I don't understand that part of it
seems good now okay so now we just want
to go into here
insert container
2 and then mate
this outside oh wait no no no not
anymore I'm going to make
this inside
[Music]
guy to
what the
heck okay so now what we want to check
though is I guess the closest
part it's funny okay that that's
actually an example of a simpler proof
that you might be able to actually do
that's not too
hard if you assume that the ball is
incompressible can it it like okay yeah
does there exist a
path from point A to point
B now that would be a cool
geometric proof
I don't have my
phone that that that that that seems
very useful it's just that okay you have
a cad design and you basically have like
a conveyor belt I mean you're designing
some sort of factory and you just want
to know that the pieces can fit through
all the right
spots can you construct a formal proof
of
it okay so anyways let's uh
take this Edge and this Edge and find
the Min
distance the Min distance
is
29 can we highlight that oh I really
like when it does that oh that's such a
good feature man dude cat is the best
yes so okay so we're good because I
believe
that I believe that is the choke
oh and it would be cool to just know
along the path what is the what is the
constriction distance basically how much
room does the ball have at all points in
the
design
um all right I think that this is all of
our features right these these why are
these so far
out okay wait can we attach can we
insert what is it going to be called the
tube it's in the hopper base and it's
the tube
adapter oh and that's that's exactly
right but is that is that with the mate
probably not H I hate doing these mates
I'm just not going to do it actually
it's not that hard what am I talking
about you just have to move
it so it's that
point and that point
okay it doesn't look so crazy now I hate
this
though I mean it's good but it's also
like it just looks like
trash like good as in it's fine but it
yeah it looks like
trash okay we did the holes there we
didn't do the holes on the other
one which was the solenoid
I don't know how the Min distance uh
increased so much I feel like we didn't
really do
anything I'm still nervous that stuff is
going to get
stuck but how do you prove it like do
you like do you just have to think of it
out of thin air or like is there a way
to like
generate oh actually could I use blender
for this blender might be the dude the
blender might be the I've been trying to
get I've been thinking about getting a
blender
I have a cad model and I want to
simulate it it basically it's a hopper
for a um for a bunch of Nerf rival
rounds and I'm wondering what the
easiest way to and for a for a static
CAD model so none of the the rotating
thing CU there's a motor in it but we're
not going to simulate motion if I just
wanted to simulate what would happen if
I dropped uh 30 30 Nerf Rivals into the
top of it it what would happen just to
see if they get stuck what's the easiest
way to do
that to simulate how 30 Nerf rival
rounds would behave when dropped into
your Hopper
blender bro we're obviously using
blender that's so
sick rigid body yeah we can do rigid
body but the thing is we would need to
figure out their set the Spheres to
simulate the by adjusting their mass and
friction that's so
sick that's not what we want
okay
for for
okay uh
um solid works has dude that's the thing
is solid works has a ton of features
though what is going
on dude chb2 is so
buggy for
the most important
thing okay
uh all right so wait we need to export
the entire assembly I've actually never
done this before should we just
okay so let's just
take the whole assembly and Export it
and I want to see what happens step
file all right let's just try a step
file
we don't have the newest blender
bro wait does it ask me to update
probably
not oh
wait what I think blender does have a
GitHub mirror
like in a like one of those nice mirrors
official mirror that's what I'm
saying official mirror and it's one of
these that's what I was actually
thinking about is these nice little like
official mirrors oh that's so nice bro
dude
they whoa I don't know what that's about
what that's so
weird anyways for the
past whatever that is since the
beginning of the
year dude what what is this huge gap in
the Middle where there was just no
commits it must just be a bug in the
mirror anyways a lot of people who who
Who's the real
guy I mean he's done so much in blender
okay so we we downloaded this thing oh
my gosh what is going on with my
internet speed 3 minutes dude let me
just try downloading it
again sometimes that
works maybe it's just maybe it's just a
whatever okay um that's
crazy so let's uh let's get to printing
CU I feel like we're good
right
um I do want to export
these did this get a full F defined
sketch okay did not that that really
means anything cuz if you just add
random Dimensions it's basically the
same as not
dimensioning okay let's just uh do
it okay and then the
container all right let's uh export this
thing
[Music]
um
oh
okay so you get the container
the
base I forget if I actually changed
anything to this but I'm going to
overwrite it
anyways this part is so lame man we're
just sitting by a
computer for no
reason Hopper base
okay we just need to get the
um dude I wish they had a control P
where you could cuz Okay that's what's
sick about vs code they got the control
P for the files and they got the control
shift p for the the actions it's just
like so fast all right we need to look
for solenoid
holder and we need to export this except
we want to actually do one quick thing
which is make a do this
plane this
flip
[Music]
orientation no we we want
to oh wait you got to select a point
though okay wait so let's I think I can
do this so I'm going to sketch on here
I'm going to draw a
line from here to here I'm going to do
this where I use it is
that is this a circle okay then we're
going to make this a cu we're going to
do this and we're going to make it oh
wait let's undo that this and this are
coincident and this
is is that straightness or is that I
think that's
verticality so uh now that we're done
with this sketch we can make our tangent
plane because we have a point there so
we just need to go back to
plane tangent plane select this point
there we
go once you've designed your own cat I
bet it's so easy to work with all of the
cads dude I should
just that the side quests are going
crazy
like okay so now all we need to do is
we're just going to put two of them in
we just want to sketch on
here see what's the height here I forget
what I made it this is so high there's
no reason for this to be this high
25 do we really think it's going to be
yanked on that hard I don't think so I
think we should take this Extrusion and
it oh
wait oh wait uh
this this Extrusion is literally just
the default like I just randomly said
that 15 seems way more
reasonable um okay so now we want to go
back to this plane sketch on there
normal C oh wait we need
to use this and we need to use oh we
have that so we just need to go
C and this is going to be
1.5 and then this is going to be an
extrude remove blind five see that's the
thing is when you're designing something
there's so much local context that you
keep like the the repeated actions just
build up and it just becomes really and
it entities is to pattern but then it's
like this and then it's like this and
then it's
like
this right and now we can
take oh this is going to be
export
this okay so now we want to print this
stuff okay we want to make sure we get
everything right so we got the solid
holder tube
adapter the augur the base
the motor holder and the
container and wait we're missing one
thing we're missing the other tube
adapter
okay um oh oh yeah see that we can't do
that so when we go
to
[Music]
um when we go to
uh
not the not the container the hopper
base what we actually want to do is we
want to export this as its own
thing and we want to export this as its
own
thing Hopper base hop base yes
and
yes okay so now we need to add those two
things it's going to be the the two most
recent let's see how bad the uh the
support is
enabled
stop slice it no support I really want
to get this to know
support it's going it's not going to
work
but wait it did it with support anyways
there's only two
plates dude I feel like vano St got like
way slower is that just me
oh for that you know what we could do no
we can't
really huh I don't know what to do about
that you do want an index but it doesn't
really have to go out that
far oh dude it's so painful going from
to looking at the slicer and then trying
to make Minor Adjustments it's actually
a pain in the
butt but like for no
reason so this absolutely doesn't need
anything what is that that's the motor
holder that part doesn't need
anything this
part okay so the tube adapters this also
shouldn't need anything can
we wait what is going
on oh wait this is per object I'm being
a
dumbass the augur
it's only because of
that we could just try it without
it I mean it seems like that's the only
one what about this okay we don't know
yet I think none of these parts need
it so just print this
plate cuz this plate is a motor holder a
tube adapter and a container I mean
that's that's
easy but we we what I have oh I have to
go for
okay um I'm going to keep this playing
because I feel
like things could go wrong
um so now we're going to try this
blender
thing okay and we're going to import
that whole
thing we're going to see if we can do
step
surely it
can okay so file
import
really what if I just click and drag it
3D uh ball
shooter dude what the
hell oh it doesn't give you a preview oh
it doesn't because I'm exporting him as
step
okay whatever um
yeah we're just going to click and drag
uh hop ass
to I mean it really is a cad thing it's
it's not really a so we need to go
to hop ass to
export uh
STL resolution let's do fine I always do
fine I mean
save
as okay now we just want to go to
blender file
import
STL
um where is 3D
actually
pictures pictures
3D
um ball shooter on shape hop
fast where is it though oh is it is it
stuck in
here
wait why is this so
goofy why is everything so soft
oh wait if lock does lock no okay wait
what all
right I thought locking him would do
what I
wanted shade
smooth oh there we go that's way
better it's middle Mouse so I want to
simulate dropping a ball on here
and actually we want to simulate
dropping a
ball without the augur I wonder if we
could export without the
augur
okay so now I just need to make a
ball all right let's see what did chbt
say how to do
it create Nerf runs shift a mesh UV
sphere shift a mesh UV
sphere how do I move
it scale it can I is there a way to
give you can't give units in this right
select the hopper object so wait first
first let's figure
out how do I make the Nerf
rival 7 a i inch
get object mod press
tab how do I know if I'm in object modor
this is probably object mode
can you not provide units in here
oh wait maybe
it no wait yeah see it just
wait yeah so what am I supposed to put
in so this is a 1 M by 1 M ball
where the hell is the
ball wait what is
the oh it's shift
okay dude this is so hard to
do ah bro this thing is freaking me out
I don't know how you're supposed to get
it over
there first off this is like flipped
upside
down wait is there or am I flipped
down oh bro this is brutal
uh I think that okay this is like the
normal isometric right or maybe like
that like
that okay so then we need to delete
this wait can we just send it to 00 0
how about that that's way better
there we
go thing is the scale does
not oh my God
bro I'm having a hard time with this
yeah cuz no way but you can't Dimension
anything cuz a freaking
STL okay do you guys see anything weird
I don't see anything
weird is it dragging the freaking poop
with it it's just dragging its poop
I think it's
fine wait why don't I just model it in
CAD bro that's way
better how hard is that that's so
easy is there just such a sphere thing
what is the
oh yeah you revolve a circle I forgot
about that okay so let's just say
wait how
what or do you have to do this hold on
let me just do it how I would think it
works so then I do
um wait can I click on this point no I
can't
how do you do it
s like the half
circle no I don't know know cuz it self
intersects way before
that
for for
dude I don't know how to make a sphere
besides the fill out of the cylinder I
feel like that's the fastest way all
right cuz I I'm not
having I mean I would like to know but
like come on so this just needs to
be uh Nerf oh
this is going to
be that's how I know how to make a
sphere
so we just need to export as an STL
right so we're going to go into
blender cuz that doesn't look
right
oh it's so hard managing multiple
programs with different freaking
controls uh import
STL Nerf
sphere where did it go it's down there
can we make
it.
five2 all right how do we just simulate
this okay wait we're we're almost
there this would be cool dude people do
blender simulations all the time with
bouncing balls and stuff okay so now
um
select physics
tab physics
tab is there a
search isn't there
a isn't there a search
uh command
search F3 bro what n that's crazy
physics ooh cloth
dude we should actually do that's so
funny blender has is cloth
simulation now that's interesting fluid
soft
body okay wait so wait let's do that
again wait can we just change that
preference cuz that's so
bad that's so stupid Oh control comma
works okay learning blender we are
trying to find key
map search by key binding function F3
it's not going to
work oh okay you search with the string
of F3 yeah l so we're going to make this
uh contrl
P or should we make it control shift
p yeah there we go that's nice so now I
can do hell yeah it's like VSS code okay
so now this is going to be rigid
body or physics add
modifier set type to passive
but where do I see
that where do I actually go to see that
oops
modifiers settings are inside the
physics
tab
okay so we want to get rid of that we
want to just make it a rigid body
okay oh it's
Mass um we actually do know it's Mass
right and what is the mass of the Rival
round I'm just going to get a kitchen
scale and I think I have a ball in my
Pock I have a ball
somewhere uh okay so we're going to
weigh that and we're going to calculate
the mass of that with this so actually
though what we want to do is going to
make a new window of this cuz I want to
keep that open I I want to
import okay perfect
yes slice no support I just want to know
it's
Mass for
its
mass it's 350
gram 350
G
okay shape convex
hole oh yeah but there's enough vertices
that that
actually I thought no but I thought it
was between any two points
I don't know so now uh so now we need to
look at this thing and this is going to
act like a soft
body collision collection I don't know
what that means friction its mass is way
less than a kilogram it's going to be
like I'm going to go
wait for
why didn't I just ask why didn't I just
ask I think it's one
but mass of Nerf rival round Mass
1 Point all right I'm down to just use
that and then I don't know how to
calculate its friction coefficient but
okay now how do we just simulate this
thing okay let's go back up reset the
physics oh we just click play
[Laughter]
that's good
stuff why doesn't this
move it also behaves like a rigid body
okay there you go but then how do we say
that it's not affected by
gravity so how do we reset it dude
that's so sick that it's just play
passive there we go
passive damn it what the hell wait am I
doing it on the wrong one oh
wait dyamics collections
wait type passive okay there we go how
about
that wait I feel like this convex ho
thing is no
good oh my God this program is driving
me [__] crazy okay
so yeah this com conx whole thing is
terrible dude what how do you get an
accurate simulation of this
thing is there a way to show a wireframe
of this rigid bot of the of this
I don't even know what this means
sensitivity
margin wait wait what the [__] how do
you do
it oh yeah middle I'm so sick of this
is it even interacting with it it must
be because it's bouncing a weird way
right can I just Loop this is there a
way to Loop this
let's start
end so if I just will it just
Loop oh that's
nice can we try making a bowl
how do you make a
bowl uh I
really don't really want to do this okay
let's just make us the stupidest Bowl
ever
so this is a rigid passive
body and I want to Shell this thing out
is there a
shell who what is that
how do you do
it what
is there a
shell trying to figure
out how do I make a bowl in
blender oh there I'm having an overload
bro
okay
what why am I how what is going
on wait what if I just try scaling these
up by like way
more is it in modeling
and then where's the
ball wait where the hell did the ball
go where is it
though okay let's just import them again
no control
I and where are
they oh wow they are so
small shade flat you shade flat
there we
go another the
ball and the
physics now it
we need to change its
position
what cuz
this what is going going on
here wait what is it
playing for
how can I
just is just the arrow
keys dude
what is is this a real program
man why does it just disappear
all right I
don't I want to do this but this just
doesn't even make sense
man is there really dude there's go okay
this is something I should figure I
should actually see
or like what what is it called
Soft okay yeah dude like this well maybe
a satisfying animation involving
thousands if not millions of round
Orbeez SL 3D rendered bulb balls bulbs
it's Christmas time bulbs I don't know
what do you
[Music]
want that's right guys and this video
we're back with the satisfying animation
tutorial in blender 3D and it's
involving a large ball simulation you
can do all sorts of things with this
tutorial creating satisfying animation
for Instagram and Tik Tok and whatnot so
I can't wait to see all the cool crazy
animations I'm sure you guys will be
creating watching this tutorial before
we get started a quick thanks to MSI for
being the sponsor of this video the MSI
Creator z7 my personal favorite laptop
in 2022 is the perfect laptop for artist
creators and even high-end professionals
it pairs quite nicely with Ms 32in rapid
IPS all right so fire blender I'm going
to start off here creating a quick
simple scene for our massive Orbeez
animation so believe it or not we'll use
the default Cube here I'm just going to
hit s and five to scale it up five times
then I'll scale it up taller by going s
z and two then hitting Z to switch to WF
frame mode I'll add in a second Cube
here bro holy hell y blender people
actually go crazy what the [__]
dude cuz all of them have this key this
keyboard dude the blender people go
crazy and productivity learn more later
on in the video and check out these
products with the first links in the
video
description all right so fire blender
I'm going to start off here creating a
quick simple scene for our massive
Orbeez animation so believe it or not
we'll use the default Cube here I'm just
going to hit s and five to scale it up
five times then I'll scale it up taller
by going s z and two dude it's like Vim
what the hell
Z to switch to wireframe mode I'll add
in a second Cube here this is going to
be the start of some stairs within our
little building here so to keep
everything easy I'm going to hold down
control every time I move an object here
to snap it to the grid so hitting G and
then holding control I'll move the cube
over to the Inside Edge of our original
Cube here then hit seven on your number
pad to jump to top view and move it over
to the corner here I'll shift d
duplicate that Cube again again moving
it holding control so I'm stamping it to
the grid then I want to scale it along
the Zed and X AIS but not along the Y
AIS so to do this you hit Prest to scale
and then shift y to scale on everything
but the Y AIS he I'll scale it to a size
of three so hit three on your number pad
that will be the perfect size for our
scene here next here's a very dude it's
such a crazy way of
modeling blender's actually crazy easy
tip to add stairs to any cube in blend
switch to Edge select mode by clicking
up in the corner here or hitting two on
our keyboard grab the corner Edge there
and go contrl B to add a bevel to the
object we're going to Bevel this all the
way down to one cubes width on the grid
here then if you bring up your B tool
options bottom left corner here we can
choose a profile type of custom and then
change the preset over to be steps you
can see this gives us a grid of steps
but you're not seeing anything on your
mesh yet because we need to change the
segment amount I'll give these segments
something like 12 then you can see
something happening on your mesh then if
you choose the preset steps again now it
makes nice even steps across your Cube
this is perfect but a few more steps
than I want I want the steps to follow
the blender grid scale there so I'm
going to change the segment number to 10
and then choose steps again and you can
see that fits perfectly in our blender
scene here next grab both these cubes
now hit contrl + J to make them a single
object hover over your stairs and hit L
to select it then hit G again holding
down control and snap that staircase up
to our original Cube which will be the
platform the staircase now if you switch
to face select mode by grabbing it or
hitting three on your keyboard you can
hit G and hold control again and pull
the bottom face down so we have a level
surface here now we can just grab it
hold in control again how long it takes
to render probably Tak so long we can
shift d it move it towards the middle
hit R to rotate 90 and move it over to
the left of our Cube here jumping to
side view you grab it along the Z AIS
holding controll again to snap it up to
the appropriate height jump to top view
duplicate it a third time rotate it 90
and move it into the top corner here we
have a nice little staircase inside of
our building to fill up with Orbeez now
I'm just going to grab the top face on
our large Cube here and move it up a bit
higher so we have room for a door at the
top of those stairs if I go into
material view we can't see anything
because of this Cube so I'm going to
jump to my materials real quick add in a
second material if you don't already
have one added added two of them and for
the second one I'm just going to scroll
down in my material settings here and
give it an alpha value of zero then
under the settings blend mode changed it
to Alpha clip so you can see it in the
material preview here grab the two faces
on our large Cube facing the camera and
assign that new transparent material to
it perfect now we can see through the
walls but the walls are still there so
they will collide with our giant orbeez
simulation and not just go flying
everywhere if you want to jump to render
view here and
the default lamp up in the corner here I
found that looked kind of nice for the
simulation then you can hide your large
Cube grab all three sections of the
staircase and hit control J to make him
a Singler object then in edit mode you
can grab the bottom faces of both these
staircases and pull them straight down
along the Z AIS holding G in control
again to stamp them all to the floor now
we want to cut a door out of the right
side face here for all of our Orbeez to
come pouring out of so to do this I'm
going to grab the right face there and
hit Y to separate from the mesh then go
ahead and select the top face as well
and just delete delete it we don't need
that and deleting it will let light into
our scene nicely then go control R and
on that face that you separated put in a
loop cut slide it over to be line with
your staircase then put in a second one
horizontally and slide it up to be at
the top of the staircase switch to face
select mode grab that door face now and
extrude it out so we have a long hallway
to start filling up with 3D balls jump
to rendered View and you'll see there's
a few faces here that are visible we
want them all to be transparent on this
little hallway so go ahead and grab
those faces and assign the transparent
material to them now we need an object
to emit all of our Orbeez or 3D balls or
whatever you want to call them from so
for this I'll just use the monkey head
cuz why not it's fun move the monkey
head to the end of our little hallway
making sure it's placed inside of it not
poking out from Any Corner then go ahead
and grab your building and your stairs
and control J to make it all one mesh so
we can easily add collisions to
everything speaking of collisions it's
time to get into physics so for starters
you're going to want to make sure you
download the free molecular plus add-on
there'll be a GitHub Link in the
description download here go to your
addons page install F download select it
and click install add-on if you switch
to us here make sure that the physics
molecular plus add-on is enabled if it
is enabled once you hit end up your
properties tab you will see it along the
tabs here along the right starting with
collider you want to select our building
object and then click collider to add
Collision St regular bro what the
hell oh [__]
dude that's what I'm talking about man
that's so
cool I'm going to have to go give that a
star that's so cool
you can see we have a few settings here
but if we jump to our physics tab we'll
have even more settings I'm just going
to click and drag the four settings
between dampening and randomize boost
them up to A7 and a point2 for the
randomized values I found this to be a
good middle ground for some realistic
collisions then you're going to select
your suzan monkey head and then click
the emitter option in your molecular
plus add-on settings now we need
something for this monkey head to emit
so we're going to go shift a and add in
the UV sphere we can right click and
choose shade smooth then if you select
to suan head and go to your particle
settings you'll see the add-on
automatically added a particle system a
few settings you want to change though
because we want to make a simulation
longer so starting with the end point
make it ,000 frames and then for the
lifetime again make these ,000 frames
also in the change the end frame to
1,000 now if you click Start simulation
you'll see it's emitting a bunch of
small particles but it's not emitting
our Orbeez yet and that's because under
the particle settings we want to go UND
do render change it from render as Halo
to render as object and the object is
going to be the UV sphere that we added
then change the size to point2 I found
this to be a nice scale for the scene
and check rotation then under the drop
down also check Dynamic this is very
important we'll give you some better
looking Orbeez physics within the
molecular plus add-on then you're set up
to start your animation so click the
start simulation button and watch your
3D balls completely flood and take over
our little scene here pretty satisfying
to watch it actually calculate in real
time and honestly I'm really impressed
with the molecular plus add-on I haven't
had any crashes and it's just a ton of
fun to play around with fast forward a
little bit and our simulation is
finished now the animation could be
rendered in Eevee or Cycles it works
actually quite well in both and slower
Hardware maybe want to render it with
Eevee but if you have faster Hardware it
always looks better to render in cycles
and of course change it to GPU compute
because if you have a fast GPU like the
one in MSI Creator z17 the RTX 380 this
will render really fast in cycles and
that's looking really cool if you have
any faces intersecting like I have here
a little bit just grab them and scale a
tiny little bit
yeah we got balls ladies and gentlemen
we got balls this is 500 balls
oh
okay does that stay in there that stays
in there
okay I think each of them there's five
bags and they each have 100
that's
funny yeah cuz if you think about it
they sell the 100 the 200 the 300
why would they uh you don't have any
faces intersecting with each other
giving you some sort of weird looking
shading all right so like I often do
when I'm going to render something in
Cycles here I'll start off by going to
our world settings and opening up an
environment texture click open and then
load up in HDR you can get HDR from HDR
Haven with the link in the video
description what I'm using here is the
colorful Studio HDR this looks quite
nice in cycles and all I'm going to do
is split my window here open up a Shader
editor on the left hand side and then
change it from object to World grab that
HDR control T if you have the node
rangle add-on enabled it adds any
mapping and texture node View and I'm
just going to rotate along the Z access
to give our seene a little bit more
interesting lighting casting some
Shadows from the wall on the right onto
the left and I thought that looks just a
little bit more dramatic now we're ready
to render all those 3D balls so with our
selected we'll change our Shader editor
back to object and add in a new material
now here's a really cool trick for
adding a bunch of different colors to
material going split my window change it
to a UV editor and open up an image that
I grabbed off the internet this is just
a ball pile with a whole bunch of
different colored balls in it super easy
to find all Google images and you can
find whatever sort of color combination
of balls you want then in my Shader
editor I'm going to go shift a add in
color ramp connect this to the base
color on our principal Shader node then
add in a second node under input this
will be the object info node connect the
random value up to the factor on our
color ramp that gives our Orbeez a
random color of anything you have within
this gradient under the color ramp now
I'm going to change the color ramp from
linear to constant now if you hover your
mouse cursor over the gradients on your
color ramp and go alt e this is a really
cool shortcut it brings up an ey dropper
and you to select a multitude of Colors
by just clicking on different objects
now within your blender viewport so with
the ey dropper I'm just going to go
around on
this here A quick shortcut to get a
bunch of
different the colors but now we can make
the balls look a
little go shift a and add in a texture
noise texture the factor up to the
factor give it a smaller scale and some
detail and then just crunch the black
and white on that color ramp a bit and
this just makes the reflections on those
Orbeez look a little bit more
interesting and here's the most
interesting trick now if you give
yourself a little bit more room and
duplicate your principal Shader go shift
a and add in a mixed Shader connect both
the principal shaders now to this mix
Shader giving the top principal Shader
the same colors as the bottom one what
you can do in this one though is give it
a very low roughness value and then take
the transmission all the way up to one
this is going to make it look more like
a glass ball lot more like Orbeez or
just something more interesting now I'm
going to go shift a and add in one more
node under the input is going to be the
layer weight node connect the Fel output
to the factor on the mixed Shader and
then just play around with his blend
value I found 7 or8 to work quite nicely
and if you seem like mine you'll want to
switch your inputs to have the glass
Shader be the top one on the mix Shader
here that looks very cool and quite a
bit more pleasant SL satisfying which is
the goal of this animation you can brght
your SC up a little bit by increasing
the HDR strength up to body 1.5 and then
in the render settings under color
management you can also change it to
have a medium high contrast look as well
as a little more exposure here to
brighten up your scene because satisying
animations in my opinion need to be
bright and pleasant looking now a frame
scene I went with a vertical camera so
on your output settings here change it
to 1080 by 1920 and then in your 3D
viewport if you go Control Alt zero it
will snap videos oh my gosh that's crazy
now those videos on like Tik Tok where
they they have like a ball bouncing on
like different steps and it makes tones
and it plays a song that's like
definitely what they're using huh just
select your camera and move it around a
little bit by hitting G and the middle
Mouse button to zoom in to find a nice
framing for our scene here there's a few
camera options that make your render
look a little bit more pretty as well so
go into your camera settings enable
depth the field then under viewport
display enable limits so you can change
the distance here and where you see that
plus crosshairs is going to be what's in
focus on your scene then under the
aperture setting you can change ftop to
something small point2 point3 works
pretty well in the SC then lastly under
render settings enable motion blur this
is going to add a lot to your satisfying
animation here I'll save my project
enable D noising in the render settings
as well I like to use the Optics D
noiser and then give ourselves a quick
test render here now if you have a
powerful GPU in your computer you can
actually play this animation back in
real time in Cycles which is just insane
I never thought I'd be saying that but
that is where technology in Hardware
like we have in the MSI Creator z7 today
z7 comp that is
technology Hardware like we have in the
that's ridiculous you can simulate that
in real time only SI z7 dude come on bro
all right so wait so we should just
pound this
out uh oh wait we got to skip the
ad Orbeez animation so believe it or not
we'll use the default Cube here I'm just
going to hit s and five to scale it up
five times this thing ramps up so
much okay hold on I'm going to get
another
[Music]
lroy
more
for
for for
all right let's freaking get it man this
is going to this is just insane how
quickly that ramps up all
right this is going to be tough uh I
feel like I want two monitors but
whatever um oh can we watch can we look
at this
actually what is
that oh
wait I thought I had two oh when I did
control n what part is that
[Laughter]
a I wonder if the crows worry about
Extinction all right let's get
it dud the they're right on top of me
bro I feel like okay I have an idea I am
going to
I'm going to go get another table that I
can easily move
the
[Laughter]
up
d
[Laughter]
[Music]
a
e
e e
okay there are literally like 50 crows
up above me so
I I I just want to be out of the Splash
Zone
[Music]
okay let's
okay that's got to be better
right let us scale the power for out
these products with the first links in
the video
description all right so fire blender
I'm going to start off here creating a
quick simple scene for our massive
Orbeez
for for
[__] it [__] it I'm gonna make food I'm
gonna make
lunch these crows are loud as hell
bro I don't want to work inside it's
like going to be like the last nice I
mean we're getting to the end of summer
so I want to use it
but damn these crap these crows are so
loud
bro they love this tree man they love
this
tree for
yeah it's funny because I kind of
thought of them all as one group but
they there probably
are that's so weird because then I
wonder about their mating patterns and
[__]
I mean these crows are [__] I mean
they're still around they are getting
dizzy and there's so many of
them what do they eat
[Music]
holy
[__] crows are opportunistic and they
raid the nests of other birds
bro these crows are crazy they just be
eating whatever they're just eating
whatever all right I'm going to make
food and maybe go in the garage cuz this
is
all right